Welcome back!
When we started this course, we talked about exposing resources related to user and user’s posts.
What we wanted to do was create services to get a list of all posts and create a new post. As well as retrieving
a specific post.
These are the URIs we designed earlier for this.
So now let's create the post entity. Create a new class. I’ll call this post and this would be an entity.
So I'll say entity. I'll have an Id field as usual.
So I’ll call this private integer Id and we'll also have a description for the post. It’ll have a string description
saying what has been posted and this is like this social media application, right? So I can post a number of
things.
Next one I would want to add in is user. So private user user.
I would need to have a relation back to a user. I’ll say private user user.
We’ll think about the mapping a little later.
For now let's focus on creating all this stuff that is needed. Let’s quickly create the getters and setters as well
Getters and setters.
Let’s create the to string as well. Let’s be very clear here.
You should not select user in here.
So user would try to print the post and post will try to print the user and we would end up out-of-memory.
So let's say OK.
The important thing is I'm not printing the details of the user.
We have created this entity called post now.
So this post entity
And there is a user entity.
What is the relationship between this? A user entity can do many posts.
So a post is tied back to one user, right?
So the relationship is many to one.
So there is a many to one relationship between these two objects.
So how do we indicate a many to one relationship in JPA?
It's very simple.
I'd need to add a annotation - money to one. So I’ll say import many to one. So user has a many to one relationship
with post.
That's what we are mapping in here.
And the other thing is I would make the fetch as lazy.
So one of the important things in JPA is, if by default you would see that this would directly try
to fetch the user.
So the user would try and fetch the post post would try and fetch the user.
And again they would be kind of recursion. On this side of the equation I'll make the fetch as lazy.
That means unless call it, it will not try and fetch the details.
So I’ll say fetch type dot lazy.
This will not retrieve the details of the user unless you call post dot get user.
The other thing I would want to make is this the primary key so at Id and this I would want hibernate to
generate the value for it. So I’ll say generated value. This is the same as what we did while we were creating the
Id in user. Import import.
I've configured the relationship on the side of the post but but on the side of the user, we have not really
configured the relationship yet.
So how should the user post be?
So a user can make a list of post.
So a post has a one to many relationship so I'll say private post post. Actually it should be a list of
post. Private list of post post.
Let’s import the list in. Java util list.
And the relationship that we would have in here, what should be the relationship?
It's one too many. I would need to also tell, what is the mapped attribute.
So, I am saying mapped by.
So I'm saying which is the field which is owning the relationship.
I don't want to create the relationship column in both user and post.
I would actually just create the relationship column of user in post.
So I'm saying it's mapped by is equal to the name of the field in post. The name of the field in post
is user.
I'm saying mapped by is equal to user.
Now let's also create a couple of getters and setters for post.
Alt shift S. Generate getters and setters. I would say generate them for post.
Oops! I don't want them here. I’ll actually move them a little down. Just above to string.
Now let's restart the application and see what would happen. When you look at the log, you would see
that there are two tables. There is create table post. It has an Id and also it would have a foreign key. It’s called
user Id integer.
So the post table has a link to the user table by a user Id. A user can have multiple posts and
all of them would have the same user Id against it.
That's pretty cool.
Right?
So if you also go to the He console. If you refresh the H2 console you'd be able to see
the tables in here as well. So you'd have a post table with the Id, description, user Id. And also a user
table with Id, birthdate and name.
That's cool.
So now I can insert date into the post. How can I insert data into the post?
Very simple, right?
I'll open up the data dot sql file that we created earlier and I'll create a couple of posts as well.
So I’ll say insert into post values. I would need to look at the database. So the first column is
Id.
So I'll give a post Id of let's say, let's start all post Ids with eleven thousand so eleven thousand one and the description
is my first post.
Not double quotes, single quotes.
My first post. The user Id I would want the use is ten thousand and one. So let's say AB made this post. My first
post.
The things that you would need to create a post. I’ll do another insert into post. My second post.
The Id, I’ll make it eleven thousand two.
For AB itself I'm giving two posts. And for other users, let them have no post at all.
So now, you would see that when the application starts up and I relaunch H2 and do a select star from
post you are seeing the two rows in here. In the next step,
Let's retreive this data using RESTful services. Until then, bye-bye.